publications.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Publications
permalink: /publications/
---

## 2016


+ EL Jackson, A Shahmoradi, **SJ Spielman**, BR Jack, and CO Wilke. [Intermediate divergence levels maximize the strength of structure–sequence correlations in enzymes and viral proteins.](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/pro.2920/full) *Protein Sci* (In press).
&nbsp;<a href="https://github.com/wilkelab/rate_variability_variation" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-github" style = "color:black">


+ J Echave, **SJ Spielman**, and CO Wilke. [Causes of evolutionary rate variation among protein sites.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nrg.2015.18) *Nature Rev Genet* 17: 109-121.
&nbsp;<a href="/files/EchaveSpielmanWilke2016_NRG.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">


## 2015

+ **SJ Spielman** and CO Wilke. [Pyvolve: A flexible Python module for simulating sequences along phylogenies.](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0139047) *PLOS ONE* 10(9): e0139047.
&nbsp;<a href="https://github.com/sjspielman/pyvolve" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-github" style = "color:black">
&nbsp;<a href="/files/SpielmanWilke2015_PLoSONE.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">

+ AG Meyer, **SJ Spielman**, T Bedford, and CO Wilke. [Time dependence of evolutionary metrics
during the 2009 pandemic influenza virus outbreak.](http://ve.oxfordjournals.org/content/1/1/vev006)  *Virus Evolution.* 1(1):vev006-10.
&nbsp;<a href="https://github.com/wilkelab/influenza_pH1N1_timecourse" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-github" style = "color:black">
&nbsp;<a href="/files/Meyeretal2015_VE.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">


+ **SJ Spielman** and CO Wilke. [The relationship between *dN/dS* and scaled selection coefficients.](http://mbe.oxfordjournals.org/content/32/4/1097) *Mol Biol Evol* 32(4): 1097-1108.
&nbsp;<a href="http://github.com/clauswilke/Omega_Mutsel" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-github" style = "color:black">
&nbsp;<a href="/files/SpielmanWilke2015_MBE.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">


+ **SJ Spielman**, K Kumar, and CO Wilke. [Comprehensive, structurally-curated alignment and phylogeny of vertebrate biogenic amine receptors.](http://dx.doi.org/10.7717/peerj.773) *PeerJ* 3:e773. 2015.
&nbsp;<a href="http://github.com/sjspielman/amine_receptors" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-github" style = "color:black">
&nbsp;<a href="/files/SpielmanKumarWilke2015_PeerJ.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">


## 2014


+ **SJ Spielman**, ET Dawson, and CO Wilke. [Limited utility of residue masking for positive-selection inference.](http://mbe.oxfordjournals.org/content/31/9/2496.long) *Mol Biol Evol* 31(9): 2496-2500. 2014.
&nbsp;<a href="http://github.com/sjspielman/alignment_filtering" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-github" style = "color:black">
&nbsp;<a href="/files/SpielmanDawsonWilke2014_MBE.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">


+ A Shahmoradi, DK Sydykova, **SJ Spielman**, EL Jackson, ET Dawson, AG Meyer, and CO Wilke. [Predicting evolutionary site variability from structure in viral proteins: buriedness, packing, flexibility, and design.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00239-014-9644-x) *J Mol Evol* 79:130–142. 2014.
&nbsp;<a href="https://github.com/clauswilke/structural_prediction_of_ER" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-github" style = "color:black">
&nbsp;<a href="/files/Shahmoradietal2014_JME.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">


## 2013

+ MZ Tien, AG Meyer, DK Sydykova, **SJ Spielman**, and CO Wilke. [Maximum allowed solvent accessibilites of residues in proteins.](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0080635) *PLOS One* 8(11):e80635. 2013.
&nbsp;<a href="/files/Tienetal2013_PLoSONE.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">


+ **SJ Spielman** and CO Wilke. [Membrane environment imposes unique selection pressures in transmembrane domains of G-protein coupled receptors.](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs00239-012-9538-8) *J Mol Evol* 76(3):172-182. 2013.
&nbsp;<a href="/files/SpielmanWilke2013_JME.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">
  + Erratum: <a href="/files/SpielmanWilke2013_JME_erratum.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">

Commit message:

cv and site update for temple and mbe paper

publications.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Publications
permalink: /publications/
---

### 2016


+ **SJ Spielman** and CO Wilke. Extensively parameterized mutation--selection models reliably capture site-specific selective constraint. *Mol Biol Evol* (In press).
&nbsp;<a href="https://github.com/sjspielman/mutsel_benchmark" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-github" style = "color:black">
&nbsp;<a href="/files/SpielmanWilke2016_MBE_rawpdf.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">

+ EL Jackson, A Shahmoradi, **SJ Spielman**, BR Jack, and CO Wilke. [Intermediate divergence levels maximize the strength of structure–sequence correlations in enzymes and viral proteins.](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/pro.2920/full) *Protein Sci* 25(7): 1341-1353.
&nbsp;<a href="https://github.com/wilkelab/rate_variability_variation" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-github" style = "color:black">


+ J Echave, **SJ Spielman**, and CO Wilke. [Causes of evolutionary rate variation among protein sites.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nrg.2015.18) *Nature Rev Genet* 17: 109-121.
&nbsp;<a href="/files/EchaveSpielmanWilke2016_NRG.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">


### 2015

+ **SJ Spielman** and CO Wilke. [Pyvolve: A flexible Python module for simulating sequences along phylogenies.](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0139047) *PLOS ONE* 10(9): e0139047.
&nbsp;<a href="https://github.com/sjspielman/pyvolve" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-github" style = "color:black">
&nbsp;<a href="/files/SpielmanWilke2015_PLoSONE.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">

+ AG Meyer, **SJ Spielman**, T Bedford, and CO Wilke. [Time dependence of evolutionary metrics
during the 2009 pandemic influenza virus outbreak.](http://ve.oxfordjournals.org/content/1/1/vev006)  *Virus Evolution.* 1(1):vev006-10.
&nbsp;<a href="https://github.com/wilkelab/influenza_pH1N1_timecourse" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-github" style = "color:black">
&nbsp;<a href="/files/Meyeretal2015_VE.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">


+ **SJ Spielman** and CO Wilke. [The relationship between *dN/dS* and scaled selection coefficients.](http://mbe.oxfordjournals.org/content/32/4/1097) *Mol Biol Evol* 32(4): 1097-1108.
&nbsp;<a href="http://github.com/clauswilke/Omega_Mutsel" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-github" style = "color:black">
&nbsp;<a href="/files/SpielmanWilke2015_MBE.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">


+ **SJ Spielman**, K Kumar, and CO Wilke. [Comprehensive, structurally-curated alignment and phylogeny of vertebrate biogenic amine receptors.](http://dx.doi.org/10.7717/peerj.773) *PeerJ* 3:e773. 2015.
&nbsp;<a href="http://github.com/sjspielman/amine_receptors" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-github" style = "color:black">
&nbsp;<a href="/files/SpielmanKumarWilke2015_PeerJ.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">


### 2014


+ **SJ Spielman**, ET Dawson, and CO Wilke. [Limited utility of residue masking for positive-selection inference.](http://mbe.oxfordjournals.org/content/31/9/2496.long) *Mol Biol Evol* 31(9): 2496-2500. 2014.
&nbsp;<a href="http://github.com/sjspielman/alignment_filtering" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-github" style = "color:black">
&nbsp;<a href="/files/SpielmanDawsonWilke2014_MBE.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">


+ A Shahmoradi, DK Sydykova, **SJ Spielman**, EL Jackson, ET Dawson, AG Meyer, and CO Wilke. [Predicting evolutionary site variability from structure in viral proteins: buriedness, packing, flexibility, and design.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00239-014-9644-x) *J Mol Evol* 79:130–142. 2014.
&nbsp;<a href="https://github.com/clauswilke/structural_prediction_of_ER" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-github" style = "color:black">
&nbsp;<a href="/files/Shahmoradietal2014_JME.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">


### 2013

+ MZ Tien, AG Meyer, DK Sydykova, **SJ Spielman**, and CO Wilke. [Maximum allowed solvent accessibilites of residues in proteins.](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0080635) *PLOS One* 8(11):e80635. 2013.
&nbsp;<a href="/files/Tienetal2013_PLoSONE.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">


+ **SJ Spielman** and CO Wilke. [Membrane environment imposes unique selection pressures in transmembrane domains of G-protein coupled receptors.](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs00239-012-9538-8) *J Mol Evol* 76(3):172-182. 2013.
&nbsp;<a href="/files/SpielmanWilke2013_JME.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">
  + Erratum: <a href="/files/SpielmanWilke2013_JME_erratum.pdf" class="info-link"><span class="fa fa-file-pdf-o" style = "color:black">
