---
layout: default
title:  "Investigating the relationship among models of coding sequence evolution"
category: research
img: model_comparison.png
---

Probabilistic models of coding-sequence evolution represent some of the most valuable and powerful tools to discern the effects of natural selection in phylogenetic data. While a wide variety of such models exist, these models have largely been developed independently. As a consequence, there is an unfortunate and large gap in our understanding of how distinct modeling frameworks relate to each other. Researchers interested in applying these methods to their study system of choice thus find that they have a bewildering array of different methods at their disposal. Which specific method to choose is often not obvious, and frequently researchers simply pick the methods they believe will work best on their data, without having any solid evidence to support this belief. The problem of model choice is further compounded by a lack of understanding of how different modeling frameworks perform on the same data, in particular whether inferences made with distinct model frameworks will yield comparable or conflicting information about the evolutionary process.
<br><br>
We derived a precise mathematical link between two common modeling frameworks: dN/dS models and mutation-selection models, which estimate selection coefficients from phylogenetic data. This link enabled us to uncover previously unknown properties inherent to each modeling approach. Using this theoretical relationship, we elucidated the circumstances in which each modeling approach is justified, and we identified methodological biases inherent to the dN/dS inference framework.
<br><br>
Future directions include further applying this relationship to systematically assess the performance of competing mutation-selection modeling framework as well as examine how the presence of positive, diversifying selection influences inferences with these complementary models.